>> Shirley Wu: To start with,
the D3 ecosystem, so
how many of you guys have
looked at the D3 website?
>> Shirley Wu: Yes.
It's got a lot of sections, it's got
examples, and a whole page of tutorials,
and that's really awesome, but
I find it really extremely overwhelming.
So hopefully today will give you
the tutorials part of how to dive into it,
and then hopefully from now on you'll be
just coming to this page all the time,
which is the D3 [COUGH]
API Reference page, and
then also notice all the different
modules that exist, [LAUGH] for
D3 and I always find that extremely like,
do you guys find that overwhelming,
cuz I'm like, where do I even start?
When I started, I was like my, when I
started, this library was a lot smaller,
and even then I was like,
this is overwhelming.
I started in like 2012.
So I've listed what I think
are some of the core,
at least like the modules that I
use all the time, in my slide.
So, I think,
yeah like selections I use all the time,
scales & axes, and all of these, and then
if nothing else,
I think the selections API is really worth
reading all the way through after,
so this one.
After this workshop, I think it's really
worth reading through the whole thing,
because it goes into a lot, a lot, a lot
of detail about how things are working,
and how you can use them, and
all of the different options.
So, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: So I just asked the chat,
what was their skill level between one and
ten, and and
there was a lot of one to threes,
and just a few fives,
and only one above five.
>> Shirley Wu: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: So
we're definitely on the beginner skill
level in terms of in the chat room,
and so yeah.
>> Shirley Wu: Cool.
That's perfect, because-
>> Speaker 2: Even negative ones, and
negative twos-
>> Shirley Wu: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: And zeros.
>> Shirley Wu: How does negative one work?
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: I don't know.
>> Shirley Wu: Like you're
unlearning things as
you-
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH] Yeah.
>> Shirley Wu: Read through the [LAUGH],
you just get confused more and
more as you read through
the documentation.
The documentation is extremely
overwhelming, because it literally gives
you every single thing you need to
know about every single function.
But I am glad one through three.
I think my slides can cater to that.
Yeah, so
on top of that what I want to show you is,
how many people have heard of this site?
Actually, I'm gonna do this.
Okay, so this site is called blocks.org,
bl.ocks.org,
and it's kind of like,
I've noticed that each different
little community has
their own online editor.
CSS community has COPEN,
and there's JSFIDDLE.
So with D3 we have this thing called
blocks where this is where we host,
like where we do our visualizations,
and then we put them up, and
this is a lot of where the community goes
to look at different examples with D3.
And it's started by Mike Bostock,
one of the creators of D3,
and he has a lot of amazing examples here.
I think he's like 3,000 examples or
something on this website.
So how it works is [COUGH]
you see the visualization and
then it actually gives
you the code used for
that visualization,
usually in this index.html.
So I know a lot of people use D3 by going
through blocks, and finding kind of like,
the visualization that they think
they might need for their dataset.
And then, because blocks
are essentially underlying GitHub gist,
so they'll fork that, and
then plug in their own data,
and then play around with that, and
a lot of people learn that way.
So blocks is definitely,
especially Mike's blocks,
are an amazing, amazing resource for
kind of even just looking at
everything that you could
do [LAUGH] with D3.
So yeah, keep blocks in mind,
and then today, what we will be using
is this thing called block builder.
So this is block builder built
by Ian Angelot, rapper name,
who was the previous D3 instructor,
and he had this idea of,
since blogs are essentially
just GitHub gist,
why not make an online editor that's
really easy to fork other people's blogs,
and just edit, and you don't have
to do any setups for git, or
download anything, and this is what
we're going to be using today.
So, if you haven't done this already,
make sure to sign in.
Log in here, you can just log in here,
and then, it's essentially,
you just essentially log in
with your GitHub username.
>> Shirley Wu: And then,
I guess I would do that right now.
>> Shirley Wu: And
this is what the editor looks like.
>> Shirley Wu: And then, the idea is,
I like doing side by side mode,
and then the idea is you can just,
>> Shirley Wu: And edit right in there and
see the changes, and
then when you press save,
it will be added to kind of your own
profile, [COUGH] sorry, of blocks.
>> Shirley Wu: And then the reason why
I absolutely love block builder is
because Ian and a few of our
friends built the search function.
So if you go to blockbuilder.org/search,
this is essentially all 21,000
blocks said they have indexed,
made searchable super quickly,
with elastic search.
So you can be like, I want to see all the
blocks that I made with D3 version four,
and today,
I want to learn how to use D3 scale,
and I want to only see things from Ian.
Apparently he doesn't have that, okay.
I only wanna see things [COUGH] from Mike.
Interesting.
D3 scale, so I'm gonna use this.
>> Speaker 3: Maybe it.
>> Shirley Wu: Maybe I should be
doing functions, let me try that.
Let me do scale linear, and
then I wanna see everything
that Ian has ever made with scale linear,
and
then you can just find one,
and then look at his code and
be like that makes sense,
or that doesn't make sense,
and then if you want to just play
with it right there you can,
and see what happens, and then,
you can fork it, and save it.
So yeah.
So this is what we'll be using for
all of our exercises today, and
all of my code are linked
to block builder, so
you can play with any of
the code samples I have.